Rachel van 't Hull - 12179299

The corpus I chose contains all 101 songs from Radiohead's 9 studio albums, that is "Pablo Honey", "The bends", "OK Computer", "Kid A", "Amnesiac", "Hail to the Thief", "In Rainbows", "The King of Limbs" and "A Moon Shaped Pool". While all of Radiohead's albums can be labeled as rock and each song carries a sense of melancholy (all though some more than others), as the band has experimented with different sounds along the way, each individual album has a distinct sound in terms of instruments, style and theme, making the corpus very fit for a computational musicological research.

Though each album carries a distinct feel, the songs within an album often range from quiet to grunge. For example, perhaps Radiohead's most famous song, "Creep", has a very different sound from the rest of the grunge album "Pablo Honey". For "The Bends", whereas "Fake Plastic Trees" is a soft and calm song, "My Iron Lung" returns to hard-rock sounds. On the other hand, "Paranoid Android" is very typical for "OK Computer", containing the "sci-fi" sounds present throughout the album. Furthermore, while most albums are made in different phases of the band's style, the album "Amnesiac" in general has very similar sounds to "Kid A" as they were recorded during the same sessions.

The variation in both Radiohead's different albums as well as the individual songs within an album makes it interesting to not only analyze how Radiohead's style has evolved over time, but also see whether a computational model regards songs from different albums as similar. For both these questions, the factors contributing to the outcomes could be very interesting in describing Radiohead's different sounds within its discography in a computational, musicological manner.
